[Music]
all right get ready for this 110 things
ancient people did that would be totally
weird today you know as technologies and
new research methods developed we're
learning more and more about ancient
people and their customs however the
more we learn about their lives the more
this knowledge shocks us because some of
the things our ancient predecessors did
seemed too bizarre for even the most
open-minded person today what did they
use animal droppings for what did
doctors use to test for pregnancy in
this video bright side will tell you
about 10 really weird things that people
of ancient times did counting down
number 10 women use lead and sulfur to
dye their hair believe it or not people
have been changing the color of their
hair since ancient times but an
inadequate understanding of chemistry
and the use of the wrong substances
sometimes cost them dearly uh-oh ancient
people used to use plant materials to
dye their hair but the effect didn't
last long and as you know there were
much more important things to do than
care about your hair color that's why
the Greeks and the Romans used a
permanent hair dye that consisted of
several toxic chemicals including sulfur
in the 1700s the Italians chose to soak
their hair in corrosive solutions of lye
to achieve luscious golden locks many
European ladies use saffron and sulfur
powder to change their hair color
the Afghans believe that dyeing their
hair different colors could cure a
headache what they probably didn't know
is that they were risking becoming ball
how would they cure headaches if they
had no hair to die well that makes sense
number nine glass balls and ground
rubber were used as breast implants
since ancient times women have used
different means to look more feminine
and beautiful apparently even back then
women worried about their breast size
some women put topical treatments or
homemade creams on their bosoms to make
them bigger others massage coconut oil
into their skin but these methods aren't
all that radical the first breast
reconstructive surgery wasn't performed
until 1895 by doctor Benson's surname he
needed to cut a tumor out of his
patients breasts and tried to make them
look even after the removal since then
doctors have used different materials
over time to enlarge women's chests
ivory glass balls ground rubber and some
other crazy stuff you know what they say
beauty is pain and experimentation
apparently number eight animal droppings
were used for medical purposes yes it's
gross
but it actually did happen ancient
people used animal feces for
preventative treatments and to even cure
different diseases for example women in
ancient Greece believed that crocodile
dung could be used as a powerful
contraceptive and inserted it into their
vagina we're sure it did a great job in
preventing pregnancy since it repelled
all the men around but watch out for
Wally Gator in ancient Egypt warriors
supplied animal excrement to their
wounds now if you think that's crazy
check out our video about 14 strange
ways of life the ancient Egyptians
practiced sheep droppings were used in
Scottish folk medicine for treating
smallpox and fresh pig dung served to
stop a nosebleed
yeah let's all try this shall we this
all just sounds like a big
well-thought-out prank simple advice do
not try any of these at home yeah as if
you have some pig poo lying around and
if it's lying around clean it up
number seven doctors drilled holes in
people's heads to release evil spirits
holy headache Batman doctors have always
been fascinated with the human body and
tried different methods to cure
illnesses drilling holes or trepanation
was one of them and doctors used to
believe that it could remedy such
ailments as seizures headaches and
infections now you're probably wondering
how can drilling into someone's skull
help with headaches well they thought
that disease was caused by an evil
spirit trapped inside a person's head so
they drilled holes fill at the spirit
out nice thinking or maybe it was just
to cover up for their research luckily
this practice was almost completely
abandoned by the end of the Middle Ages
archeologists found that some patients
even managed to survive such treatment
the lucky ones obviously number six
women were hired to cry at funerals in
ancient Rome
many families hired special women to
weep at funerals in order to impress the
crowd they usually followed the
procession and to make their grief
believable the women would scratch at
their cheeks to draw blood
and rip out their hair today these women
are called publicists thankfully this
ancient tradition was later considered
too extreme and unnecessary as if a
funeral isn't sad enough
number five fathers could legally kill
their daughters lovers fathers had a
very strong influence on the entire
family and especially on their unmarried
daughters in fact they had the right to
choose a good husband for them the rules
were extraordinarily strict as a young
woman had no right to have an intimate
affair with anyone before marriage
you've probably seen a lot of comedies
about a family where the father hates
his daughter's boyfriend it's great that
we live in the 21st century because in
ancient Rome a father had the legal
right to kill his daughter's lover and
even her if he caught them committing
adultery okay number four in ancient
Rome fathers could sell their sons into
slavery so bear with me for a moment
we're gonna continue to beat up on nasty
fathers for a bit yeah you heard that
right the father was the head of the
family and possessed absolute power over
his wife and children so they also had
the right to decide whether or not to
keep newborn babies in the family if
they chose not to they could sell their
sons into slavery if the person who
bought the slave didn't need him anymore
the sons could go back to their parents
home if a father sold his son three
times and the son was returned every
time he was considered a bad father
finally this is another reason why we're
happy to live today give this video a
like if you agree
[Music]
number three doctors use garlic to test
for pregnancy the lack of detailed
medical knowledge of anatomy didn't
allow doctors to say for sure why some
women could get pregnant while others
couldn't because of this they tried
different natural ways to test for
pregnancy in 1350 BC women were advised
to urinate on a wheat seed and if the
seed sprouted she was pregnant of course
another pre-modern way to perform a
pregnancy test involved placing a garlic
clove or an onion in the vagina the
following morning a doctor would
proclaim a woman pregnant if he could
smell the garlic or onion on her breath
of course this is where the current
expression comes from does this pass the
smell test so if the wheat seed test
remotely resembles the pregnancy test we
have today we can't imagine how the
garlic test could help number two
ancient Egyptians shaved off their
eyebrows to mourn their cats you
probably heard that in ancient Egypt
people worship cats as their favorite
animals and believe that cats brought
good luck to the families they lived
with cats were sacred and anyone who
harmed them was sentenced to death amen
yeah you're petting me a little rough
there all right hold on guards take him
up for a long walk on a short pier you
don't mess with kitty
well ancient Egyptian families mourn the
death of the family cat by shaving off
their eyebrows the cat's body was
involved and adorned with a wooden
carved mask then the tiny cat mummy was
placed in a family tomb or in a cat
cemetery do you think these cute animals
deserve such an elaborate ritual not if
you're a dog owner tell us what you
think in the comment section below
and number one there were public
bathrooms in ancient Rome people in
ancient Rome use all possible means to
take care of their personal hygiene they
regularly visited public baths and
toilets and use cleansers and body
sponges yes it does sound a little weird
but only very wealthy
could afford to have a private bathroom
or a toilet in their house the other 95%
of the population had to use public
lavatories that were made out of long
rows of massive stone or wood with a
hole cut in at every few feet nice place
to make small talk
don't you think hi hey what was the
score at the Coliseum last night oh that
was Lions to Christians nothing wow
thanks
the constant running water from the
baths flush the waste to a sewage system
it sounds pretty innovative for their
times just the whole lack of privacy
thing is a little unnerving so which of
these things amazed you the most tell us
in the comment section below like this
video and send it to your friends
because they'll probably learn something
too and of course click the subscribe
button to join us on the bright side of
life